---
layout: post
title: Tetris
date: 2020-10-13
tags:
  - javascript
  - personal space
keywords:
  - browser games
  - javascript tetris
  - tetris
  - online tetris
dont_show_excerpt_separator: false
---

Take a break, play a game! [Tetris](https://lanadz.com/tetris/)

It was a fun project, never wrote games before. Ok not quite true, I wrote one game in Delphi in 2000 🤦‍♀️ That was loooooong time ago. Maybe I need to reimplement that game in javascript.

Game is written in JavaScript and Jest is used for tests.
It was funny how I struggle at the beginning to setup the environment. Missing those times when you had plain `javascript` and `index.html`. Double click on `index.html` and see the result.
<!--more-->
This time I wanted to use Jest and write tests. And write modules. And it didn't work smoothly from the first try.

  I used
  ```javascript
  module.exports.Tetris = Tetris;
  ```
  and
  ```javascript
  const { Tetris } = require('./Tetris');
  ```

The reason why I used `require` but not `exports` and `imports` - `jest` worked with `require` statements right out of the box. And I didn't want to spend much time figuring out how to setup `webpack` and `babel` or whatever is needed to setup the project. Fast and simple please. And TDD ✅.

And of course, `require` statements don't work in browser. [browserify](http://browserify.org/) came to the rescue. In simple words it adds `require` and `module` functionality to bundled file.

The next issue was: if you simply double click `index.html` with bundled js files - you will receive the following error:

<div class="errorDiv">
<div class="content">
Access to script at 'file:///Users/username/projects/tetris/bundle.js' from origin 'null' has been blocked by CORS policy: Cross origin requests are only supported for protocol schemes: http, data, chrome, chrome-extension, chrome-untrusted, https.
</div>
</div>

To fight that one you will need some server running. I used [ruby oneliner](/tags/ruby-server-oneliner/)
```bash
ruby -rwebrick -e'WEBrick::HTTPServer.new(:Port => 9090, :DocumentRoot => Dir.pwd).start'
```
After that, you have a nice `localhost:9090` up and running.

That's pretty much it for environment setup. Source code is available on [github](https://github.com/lanadz/tetris).

Fun with <del>Flags</del> 😄 [Tetris](https://lanadz.com/tetris/)
